---
layout: post
title:  "Reproducible Research with Org-babel"
author: "Thibault Lestang"
---

org-babel is a set of features on top of org-mode

## org-mode summary

`org` is for organise!
`*` for levels as `#` is for markdown.
use multiple `*` for subheadings (e.g. `**` etc)

- You can create tables
  M-x org-table-create-or-convert-from-region (?)
  You can use it as a spreadsheet, with rows and columns operations.
  
- headlines can have properties
  key-values pairs (C-c C-x p)

- org also as todo lists (C-c C-t), with schedule (C-c C-s) and deadlines (C-c C-d) that you can see in the agenda. (C-c a a)

- Org-mode is incredibly broad, from task management to writing literate code and papers. The basic principle is that it has functionality related to hierarchical organisation of text (under headings).

- All documents can be exported to all sorts of outputs by calling `org-export`. You can export to all sorts of html, pdf or other markup langages (Markdown, latex etc).

- code blocks for any language:
    ```
    #+begin_src python
    import numpy
    #+end_src
    ```
    (You can use `<s tab` and it will create the source block)
    `C-c '` will open another buffer with the major mode of the language used in that language (as if visiting a python file); `C-c '` will take you back to the org file.

   `C-c C-c` will run that code block, and it shows the result below.
   
- When the output is a list of string, for example the "shell" example is showing the output as a table of files. Same type of table as the one shown before.

# Example workflow

- We've starting writing an org file, available [in this git repo](https://github.com/tlestang/org-babel-demo).
- We start with a C++ code which generates some data for us, in this case random 1D browninan motion.
- We want to put this small C++ snippet inside a code block, see file for examples.
- `C-c C-c` will write the stdout of the 
- we can name the code block with: `#+NAME: initial-data` above the code block
- In a following code block, we can refer to the output to the above `python :var timeseries=initial-data` and a variable `timeseries` will be read instead.
- print won't show the output of the code, but you can use `:results output`.
- Results/Variables are not cached, so it will ask you to run the dependants code blocks.
- exports won't show the output, unless `:exports both`

- Then we can have inline results within the text:
  `src_python[:var timeseries=initial_data]{}` the code will be inserted within the `{}`

- to simplify things we can create a code block that then we can call, we have to name the code block, and then use it as a function with: `#+CALL: mean(initial_data)` where `mean` is the name of the block.

- Inline calls can be used with `call_mean(input_data)` inside the text. Then use `C-c C-c` to evaluate the function as an inline codeblock

- you can include functions from separate files using `#INCLUDE: `

- A `:prologue` header argument can pre-pend code to a code block. For example: `:prologue "import numpy"`. You can add this at all kind of levels. On the code block `#+begin_src` line, or in a property drawer at the document level or any subsection. You can also restrict headers to one language.


- you can also use it to show figures.

- tangle: can be used for literate programming.
- emacs configuration as an org-mode file.
    - `org-bable-tangle` extracts all the code from an org mode that then it can be used (e.g., by emacs to use to load the configuration file).
    - `(org-bable-load-file "file")` it's a org-bable helper function that will untangle the org-mode file when load.
